hi everyone i am super excited this
morning absolutely stoked for this
interview i have travis christopherson
with me
who is an amazing man with an incredible
history of writing absolutely astounding
books
books like curable like tripping over
the truth uh he authored one with uh
co-authored with dr dom d'agostino who
i'm also a fan of uh you travis welcome
to the show firstly um you're an
incredible writer uh and the research
and stuff that you've done is just
absolutely mind-blowing so we're going
to dig into that today so welcome to the
show travis thanks for having me elise i
appreciate it thank you for the kind
words oh i really really mean them like
it's it's your work in the works they
have dr dom who's also been on here and
i had dr charles meeken on and maggie
and bradley jones from the cancer
revolution and yeah all of these amazing
people have really contributed i feel to
my personal life story with my mom and
uh as my listeners know we've been
dealing with uh lymphoma and uh you know
touchwood right now we're looking very
good there's no cancer to be found
anywhere and i'm just desperate to get
this information out there because what
i'm realizing so much now and that i've
been in this sort of space for the last
eight nine months is that
most people still
have no idea
of
that the somatic mutation theory
is not
what they think it is they don't know
anything about the metabolic approach to
cancer
they don't know about any off-label drug
combinations just so many things they
don't know so that's what we want to dig
into today
so yeah
so travis can you give us a little bit
of a background on yourself before we
dig into your amazing research
yeah yeah my so my background's very
non-linear i i started off my
undergraduate degree was in biochemistry
and then life sort of interceded and i i
actually jumped into the family business
got married had two children
but i always wanted to go back and so i
went back to finish my master's degree
which i had started but i only had three
credits to finish
and they were kind enough to let me do
an independent studies class so i did it
on cancer metabolism they let me choose
the topic
and i just happened to be leafing
through my kindle and i ran into this
book called cancer as a metabolic
disease by tom seyfried
yeah you're not in your head i'm sure
you know yeah
it's a foundation for a lot of what
you're talking about and
it just blew me away i i you know i had
learned cancer from a standard textbook
that
it was extremely dogmatic theory that
the cancer was cancer was caused by
somatic mutations that's a semantic
mutation theory
that there's a series of sequential
mutations that sort of rewire the
cellular circuitry towards uncontrolled
growth and that was what cancer was
and this book was this
textbook sort of book that walked
through over 100 years of evidence
showing
proposing a new theory i guess is the
way to say the cancer was precipitated
by metabolism rather than genetic
mutations and the the amount of evidence
to me was just astonishing
good evidence incredible labs
and so i did my thesis on that
and that inspired me to
look at
because it was such a beautiful story
and i i like i've always enjoyed writing
i just read the ember of all maladies
which is literally a biography of cancer
which marches through all the history
but never looks at cancer from any other
lens other than this dogmatic viewpoint
of the somatic mutation theory
and so that the metabolic theory of
cancer lended itself really well to a
book because it's a story of a scientist
named otto warburg who in the 20s
proposed this theory and he was an
absolutely brilliant biochemist he'd won
the nobel prize he was nominated for
three nobels and three separate
achievements
he was regarded as probably the premier
biochemist of the 20th century but then
he proposed this cancer theory and by
the time he died in 1970
it was really sort of ridiculed as a
simplistic model of cancer
and so
then you know the years go on and the
somatic mutation theory is locked down
we entered this era of targeted therapy
which was extraordinarily underwhelming
the cancer genome atlas project kicked
off which was to be the manhattan
project cancer and really find those
series of mutations that were causative
for each type of cancer
and it didn't come anywhere near that it
really just created this wake of
confusion and so there was this
rekindling of warburg's original theory
and it's still going on it's still it's
still this disease it is so incredibly
complex
that
nobody can say with confidence that we
absolutely know what it is but what we
do know is these new theories
have a ton of data a ton of credibility
and
are sort of emerging now and and you
know getting getting the attention they
deserve i guess yeah and this is the
thing like warburgs this was 1924 or
something that he did the original
discovery and it was the sort of
direction we were going until the whole
genetic side of things came into play i
think in the 50s and 60s correct me if
i'm wrong and then from then on it was
like now that's old hat we're not going
down that route anymore and this is far
more sexy to be studying genetics and
stuff
and so at the basis of all this is that
um people thought that it was a genetic
mutation that causes cancer or a number
of genetic mutations and that they'll be
able to hone in on this and and and find
the answer and literally billions of
dollars and decades have gone into this
now it's very hard to walk that back to
justify that you've gone down this road
and then you come along with people like
you know richard beach and thomas
seyfried who go hang on a minute uh
what otto warburg was talking about is
still very interesting and start to go
into that whole metabolic side of cancer
and the
the opposition is just huge i mean
getting this information out because
we're up against i mean you've written a
book called curable as well about the
state of the whole health system
in new zealand it's no different than in
america really um it's a disaster isn't
it why why do we not always follow the
actual science
if it was just about the actual science
we'd be so much further ahead than what
we are
right right yeah you get into this this
institutional inertia from these massive
systems right and yeah curable was
really sparked by
looking at this chart that showed
the life expectancy of people and i
think it was 15 developed countries
versus their per capita healthcare
expenditure in the united states we
spend far more than anybody else per
person on health care but having the
lowest life expectancy wow and so how
could that be clearly we're doing
something very wrong the health care
system is entirely inefficient if that's
the case and so it's just that was the
30 thousand foot view and what are we
doing wrong
and when you really look deep um
the two problems really are variation in
treatment over treatment
and
the drug development process i think is
one of the main problems too when you
when you look at
drugs are developed for a very small
indication
for a disease once it's manifested right
and you don't want to get to that point
you should when you consider
your lifetime you can think of it as a
tree so you sort of age up the trunk
and then as you get older chronic
diseases start to branch off and so you
want to get down to this trunk what are
the fundamental processes that are going
on that lead to these diseases
and we don't focus on that we're
terrible at focusing on prevention we
focus on the disease
trying to treat it once it's already
manifest which is an absolutely horrible
strategy and so i think that's the you
know the third bucket is we just don't
try to prevent disease as well as we
should yeah and that's i mean that's
what i'm all about is trying to get into
that space before we get to that point
and even like convincing your local gps
to do a blood test every few months so
that you can see how you're doing it's
like driving a car without a dashboard
in my opinion when we can't have these
tests and these tests are cheap and
available and would save us millions of
dollars if we could just get them done
early you know so that we can prevent
things from happening or we get the
early signs of things happening and then
and this is why i love doing this
podcast because i want to help to help
people to be in that preventative space
because it's bloody awful having
experienced it in my own family for the
last six seven years because prior to
cancer we had a aneurysm journey with
mum that she wasn't meant to survive
either
in realizing there was nothing there and
if i'd done a little bit of prevention
maybe it wouldn't have happened you know
and you can't prevent everything because
we don't know everything but there's a
lot i could have done and to be in that
space now to help other people stop but
you know going down that path is
is or at least delaying you know and we
have the technology now to really be
living a long time the aging code has
been cracked by people like david
sinclair and many many others
uh you know we're starting to work this
stuff out
but at the same time we're dying earlier
now we're like you know where and we're
living
disease
the last 20 30 years of a person's life
is often
full of disability disease pain and
suffering and yes we're keeping them
medically alive with all the great drugs
and things that we have but the quality
of life is very poor often and nobody
wants that
so
incurable like what what what do you
think we can do to change the system
this is the
60 million dollar question here
you know how do you change institutions
you have to change i think you have to
change incentive structures you know in
the u.s we we have a fee for largely a
fee-for-service system so doctors get
paid for every
you know drug they prescribe every
procedure and so that's why there's this
big incentive to over treat and very
little incentive to prevent
but there's ideas like um one they're
doing down south is where they give
primary care clinics a big bolus of
money per patient
and they say okay you can keep that
money if your patients don't need need
procedures and things like that so now
the doctors are completely incentivized
to keep their patients healthy so that's
the first thing is you have to
incentivize the doctors to be
preventative in nature
and then you know when you look at the
science like one example is
insulin resistance which leads to
diabetes and we know worldwide diabetes
is an epidemic
and and the way doctors in primary care
clinics diagnose it is by a rise in
blood sugar but if you just tested like
you were talking about earlier that we
have these lab tests if you just tested
for fasting insulin
regularly you can see when people are
becoming to be
become insulin resistant decades before
blood sugar starts to rise and this is
where you have this perfect window to
intervene but we don't do that it's very
reversible it's through lifestyle you
know people become motivated when they
see laboratory numbers and you talk to
them what this means and that is a very
one of those again back to that trunk of
the tree one of those fundamental core
processes that accelerates aging
it it just completely alters your energy
metabolism and your body becomes starved
of of energy which it needs to repair
dna to clean up to fund proteins to do
all these housekeeping processes that
slowly lead to all chronic disease
neurodegeneration cardiovascular cancer
so that's just one simple thing one
blood test where we could be
extraordinarily proactive but most
doctors when you write i want an insulin
test they'll ask why yeah you know why
do you want that yeah so it's just we
have to change the framework they have
to get different training and on what
these are early on and
you know institutions have incredible
inertia to change them takes a uh what
we knew smoking killed people but it
took decades before the smoking they
slowly went down but they you know
eventually they get there
exactly that's a really good analogy
because you know
we were told back in the 50s that it was
healthy to smoke i mean my mum smoked
throughout her pregnancy with me uh i
developed cancer where there was no um
sorry asthma uh where there was none in
the family history you know did that she
was told that it was healthy to do so
you know by the medical profession you
know and this is the thing it does take
these long periods of time and you think
well that was way back then in the dark
ages they wouldn't do that now
but we're still bumbling along and
that's sort of a a
an approach and you know coming back to
the insulin resistance if there's one
thing that i can get people to do is is
easy sort of things like well they're
not easy but they're simple lifestyle
interventions
and it's not sexy when i'm working with
a client and i ask them if they can
change their diet if they can you know
start
cutting back on the on the carbs maybe
doing a keto diet
or going in that direction cutting out
the
the crappy fats in their in their diet
um you know these simple things that
people can do that bring
massive massive but nobody wants to do
the hard work and it isn't you know like
i love food
it's a daily battle we all have that
daily battle but if you understand the
the
just how important this part of the
puzzle is not just the food thing but
just that's a big piece of it like our
our standard diet
you guys call it the standard american
diet it's pretty much the standard diet
here in new zealand too uh
is just riddled with carbs and poor fats
processed foods
uh you know pesticides herbicides all
the horrible things that go into our
food chain which is completely another
discussion but there is a opportunity to
do something and then you add in the
course the exercise and these are two
but they're very they're very too simple
they're people when they hear you know
you've got to start exercising a little
bit more and coming back and changing
what you're eating and doing some
perhaps intermittent fasting or
something
then but where's the magic pill you know
i want the magic pill approach
because that's where we've been
conditioned to um in the in with the
with the uh blood sugar and the insulin
that is uh you know you can look at a
person mostly in their 40s who's got a
muffin top going on and you know
that stuff's happening in there you know
that they are down that pathway of
metabolic dysregulation that they're in
the initial stages and it isn't
you know it's not just because you age
this is what's aging you
we've got it backwards you know like
it's not inevitable
you know like if you've got a
if you can still see your stomach if you
can still see your core your muscles and
your core i always think that's a really
good indication you don't have to have
the super six-pack
but if you can actually see
that you've got musculature there then
you probably haven't got a metabolic
dysregulation that's a completely
unscientific way of looking at it but
it's the way i look at it
it's valid yeah and it's it's funny to
me you know you look at the animal
kingdom and and lions wool steer they
all look fit right and they're living in
this biological niche that they've lived
in that they evolved in over over
thousands of years
and humans you know we lived in that our
niche for for millions of years but then
all of a sudden the last 10 to 12 000
years because of agricultural technology
we've all of a sudden been completely
thrown out of it
and and you know you would never walk
around and eat wheat grain uh and the
savannah just the energy expenditure to
do that before combines was it would
make no sense so we've completely
altered our diet in the last 10 000
years and of course you know we don't
know better than evolution we like to
think that we we know better but our
that's a drastic dietary shift towards a
massive amount of processed food and
carbohydrates and oils that we never ate
all these foods that we just never
encountered
so you know it it's it seems pretty
obvious there would be consequences and
when you look at the human race we do
look curiously sickly compared to other
animals
you know we just we just do and i don't
think we're supposed to live
this way and feel this way the majority
of people and you're right it's just a
combination of
probably a terrible diet and just not
moving enough because we were designed
to go out and have to work every day to
catch food that's what we evolved and
when you uncouple
your your physiology from that
environmental niche you see all kinds of
problems and it's very clear you can
study hunter-gatherer societies more
traditional
societies
you'll never see somebody overweight
you'll never see insulin resistance and
in particular you'll never see systemic
chronic inflammation
and the majority of people in the in the
western world as they age they'll get
more and more
chronic inflammation it just it should
go back to baseline after an infection
but it just steps up and stays there
and that's a very new phenomenon for for
our species and that's another you know
if there's two root causes of disease
it's insulin resistance and chronic
inflammation inflammation
yeah it's just so so so true and in in
this is for everything from arthritis
to heart disease to alzheimer's too and
this is where when you understand
cellular health a little bit and you
understand how you can improve cellular
health uh and get rid of inflammatory
markers or work towards that then you
you're getting towards the
way higher up the the line you know like
all of these diseases if i'm working
with the client they say well how can
you how can you take a similar approach
with someone with cancer or someone with
alzheimer's
because at the top of the apex is the
problem of cellular
dysregulation and if we can get those
cells operating how they should be in
each of the organs then we're going to
have a good basis and you don't even
know need to know the specifics of
that particular disease like to the
detail that a specialist would know
because you understand how to get these
inflammatory processes under control or
what direction to go into order to do
that and these things become sort of
panaceas like in the background i've got
a hyperbaric oxygen chamber and if you
notice that that thing sitting here
yep yeah i want to you've got one too
brilliant yeah there's a wild mild one
there's obviously better ones and i've
had lots of podcasts on hyperbaric
oxygen therapy but that is one of those
things that can attack all those
inflammation that inflammation in the
body the inflammatory cytokines and
chemicals and all of that sort of stuff
on a so it becomes a sort of a panacea
hyperbaric like there are so many things
that people can't possibly help all of
that well it can because it's providing
oxygen to otherwise hypoxic tissue it's
creating more stem cell production it's
doing attacking the inflammation and
these are all baseline aging processes
that we're we're undergoing
but that's too simple
and the hyperbaric is one of those other
things that is like
why isn't this in every person's
household at least or not in every
doctor's office why
why isn't it studied more right it's so
simple and cheap and why why are there
more clinical trials but it's it's
interesting to me you know not just the
food
composition but
the amount the amounts that we eat and
the you know the fact we eat every day
that certainly didn't go on throughout
our evolutionary history and there was
times you know when we had periodic food
scarcity a lot where you just couldn't
get calories the winter time you know
ver whenever and
it's it evolution it appears that
evolution has built in
a
powerful signal to that when you're in a
caloric deficiency
you be you switch your metabolism i'm
sure you've talked about this in your
podcast to something called ketosis
where you completely shift what you're
burning to um
these little small molecules that come
from fat and they're they're just
absolutely fascinating and it sounds
like snake oil when you when you look at
the data the clinical trials that have
been done everything from alzheimer's to
parkinson's to cancer to
diabetes it you know the data is
remarkable and so that's another way
we've completely stepped out of that
something that evolution baked into us
that we just don't utilize there's
probably a lot of people in the western
world that never enter the state of
ketosis in their life and we still don't
know you know should you be in it
continuously or periodically those are
questions that need to be worked out but
it's
what happens is absolutely remarkable
when you
just go for about 16 hours without
eating
your immune system completely shifts all
those pro-inflammatory monocytes
retreat back into your bone marrow
and and so they they're they infiltrate
tissues they leave the tissues go into
the bone marrow so you enter this state
of low inflammation and then when you
eat when you think about eating what it
is is it's really a wholesale invasion
from the outside world and your body has
no idea what could be in there there
could be pathogenic bacteria and you
know there's certainly bacteria there's
virus remnants there's all kinds of
things
different proteins that you know are not
typically encountered
so your immune system mobilizes every
time you eat so if you're eating
constantly you're in this constant state
of mobilizing the immune system and it
never really gets to rest
so that has implications for
autoimmunity for really you know every
every chronic inflammatory disease we
just talk about that's just the absolute
golden of course you've written the book
uh the fourth uh the fourth field
ketones um what is your take on on like
the keto diet um
there's you know there's so many
different types of keto diets for
starters and there's you know the
modified atkins versus the you know the
hardcore stuff and the four to one ratio
and
all of these sort of things you know for
the average person getting into
something like this where would you
start if you're wanting to do a keto
diet i mean obviously if you've got
someone like mum with cancer she's on a
super strict keto diet um i'm pretty
well and healthy i do have carbs in the
mix um and if i'm doing a lot of
aerobic activity and sport and things a
little bit more um and in cycling in and
out of things but where where can we
start with this whole ketosis and can
you explain a little bit and i'm still
learning there's so much to learn on
ketosis and ketones
um
so where am i going with this question
yeah like what when we go into this
fasted state
and we start producing our own body's
ketones
what actually happens in the body so
you've explained that the monocytes
retreat back into the
into the bone marrow what else is going
on because for for the brain for the
heart
uh yeah this is the perfect food as well
so for someone with alzheimer's
listening to this or
dementia or anything like that
it's it's interesting so when you stop
eating carbohydrates or you fast one or
the other and you know
ketosis really is
something that happens during the fasted
state when you look at a ketogenic diet
it's really the nutritional maintenance
of the fasting state so it's like a sort
of a trick to maintain that that fasted
state so what happens is you have about
24 to 36 hours of carbohydrates stored
up in the form of glycogen in your liver
and muscle
so when you stop eating you burn through
that quickly and now your body has sort
of a crisis to face how does it get fuel
so it will begin to mobilize the fat
that you have
and that fat spills out in the
bloodstream it goes into the liver
and it begins this process of beta
oxidation where your enzymes cleave off
two carbon units and you can burn burn
that fat but when you when you have a
caloric deficit it does this process so
fast that it spills out these two carbon
units and some of those get converted by
enzymes in the in the cells cytoplasm
into these ketone bodies acetoacetate
and then beta hydroxybutyrate those then
into the systemic circulation to take
the place of glucose there will glucose
will never go down below a certain level
but it will drop to where you need some
sort of replacement especially for the
brain which is a huge metabolic sink and
it can only burn burn glucose or ketones
it can't burn fats like most other cells
and the brain costs us about 20 of our
energy metabolism
so the ketones will enter the brain and
the heart and the muscle and replace
glucose now what makes them unique is
number one as a fuel there is more
thermodynamic energy per carbon unit
than glucose so they burn hotter you get
more atp per carbon unit
so it's that's why dr veatch called it a
super fuel but beyond that
they're they're doing just an incredible
amount of other things
they enter the the metabolism
differently they don't go down the
glycol glycolytic pathway so they enter
the mitochondria and get burned
oxidatively right away
and when they do that they shift the
ratio of these coenzyme couples and
coenzyme couples are the like the money
in the economy that's what our body
creates and then diffuses out to use for
energy right it's just like money and
economy so it charges the ratio of those
coenzyme couples to where there's more
energy now those do everything and one
of the main things they do is they
recharge the antioxidant glutathione
so one thing you can notice when you
shift somebody to ketosis is they have a
huge antioxidant capacity and when you
do it to mice
you can give them a lethal radiation
dose to where 70 of the mice die when
they're in a carbohydrate metabolism
when they're in the ketosis none of the
mice die wow that's pretty profound yeah
radiation is ox it's just free radicals
it's it's what you know what david
sinclair would say is slowly aging us
over time so you get this huge robust
way that you can deal with this constant
sort of damaging presence in our lives
so i'm really interested if you know if
we can do long-term trials to see
if it really does slow down the aging
process but there's all kinds of
diseases that are oxidative in nature
when someone's going through
chemotherapy which is an oxidative drug
and radiation is pure oxidation
when you have somebody fast and this
clinical trial has been done before
chemo or radiation the side effects are
so far diminished and and this not the
subjective side effects like fatigue
they are too but the ones you can count
like the number of times a person throws
up goes from
six a day to zero
the number of mouse sores the amount of
hair loss so you get this
you get this protective effect in
healthy cells while at the same time
cancer cells don't like ketones everyone
knows they love sugar i think most
people have heard that statement before
and it's true they absolutely have a
voracious appetite for sugar so they
when there's less blood sugar and more
ketones they are oxidatively stressed so
that oxidative chemotherapy and
radiation
effectively kills them easier so it's
this kind of dream therapeutic scenario
for
for cancer therapy and that's where i
feel it should be studied is yeah
alongside standard of care to see if you
can improve survival and improve
people's quality of life during that
process and this is just so like i know
walter lungo did that research like um
getting people to fast uh 48 to 72 hours
i think it was before
the chemo uh and had a hell of a time
convincing the oncologist to let him do
that because there
in the is
yeah there is this fear like that cancer
patients obviously lose weight cachexia
is a real problem
but that's a really different mechanism
like what we're trying to do here is a
short sharp
uh hermetic stress basic on the body
that sends the body into this whole
state that you you've mentioned where
it's actually protective and it's an
acquiescent state so when you put the
chemo in which goes after the rapidly
proliferating cells
which are the cancer cells which is
great
but it also goes after the stomach
lining it and that's why you vomit it
you know it also goes after your hair
follicles because so so that they're all
of those things are much much less
when you have
a little bit of a fast before your chemo
um and yet when you like i i've my mum
has been on temazolamide it was one of
the chemos and i and i got a very mild
dose and i didn't go like the full you
know like they want to go maximum
tolerable dose and i was like no we want
to do
smaller dose you know did my research
fought hard to get what i wanted along
with immunotherapy rituximab
um did still did genetic testing to see
that she would respond to those drugs by
the way that was quite interesting with
the rgcc
um
but that then in fasting prior and being
in ketosis prior and she's come through
that really really well as someone as an
80 year old
and i mean we actually got on top of the
the cancer was no longer visible in the
mri
before we started the chemo
but i put that in the mix as well
because i didn't want you know i know
how nasty uh cancer can be and it can
change its metabolism and i just wanted
to make sure that we you know keep this
stuff going right and temazolamide is is
a milder form it's not like a some of
the
heavier heavier duty ones
but that whole process
and when always sit in the chemo room
with all the other patients and they've
given orange juice and sandwiches to eat
for their lunch and on the way out of
the oncologist's office says oh isabel
you've lost a kilo you better start
eating your pudding
and and i'm like and therein lies the
problem
this is what my hematologists and
oncologists are telling us to do
and they just are completely
they i mean they know that pet scans how
they diagnose cancer
uh use
a form of sugar to see where the cancer
is sucking it up i mean they know that
so why the hell would you put in sugar
into the diet
you know
there's more data than that you know
there's there is data where colon cancer
and brain cancer that shows the degree
of insulin the resistance correlates to
a worse outcome well you know all this
is known in the literature the problem
is it's just not taught unless an
oncologist dugs out themselves and you
know if you read curable we're beyond
the point where a doctor a single doctor
can practice medicine
it is far too complex there is too many
studies too much data we have to
we have to be pit crews we have to be
teams to where they're specialists on
each of these branches and i can
envision a future where there's medical
oncology radiation oncology and
metabolic oncology and these teams you
know come up with treatment plans
but yeah it's horribly unfortunate that
it's not there and it's always a patient
you know the patient has to find these
things in the vote and bring them to the
doctor and if the doctor is resistant
then they typically do it on their own
and sadly a lot of this is financial
because all these things you know how do
you get paid for a 48-hour fast yeah
they don't and so there's no incentive
to do that and there's no incentive for
the clinical trials because no one
really knows how to make money off of it
so it's it's they're stranded in you
know what we call this financial
purgatory
and it's it's really unfortunate yep yep
and and this is why it's so important
for people to listen to episodes like
this so they can educate themselves and
it isn't the ideal way for us to be
getting you know help and and especially
when you're facing a life-threatening
illness you want someone to just tell me
what to do right um unfortunately you
you can't do that you can't you know
lisa
it is changing you know we like we just
talked about the slow social inertia so
this metabolic therapeutic conference
that i go to every year that dominic
d'agostino puts on i've been going to it
since the beginning and the first year i
think there was about 80 to 90 people
there yeah you know it's tiny and this
is all based on like ketogenic diets
just metabolic therapies for various
diseases
and this last year there was 16 or last
like two two or three weeks ago i was
just there in california there was
sixteen hundred people wow clinicians
from all over um there's a there's a guy
from jethro who from cedar cyanide you
know impeccable reputation
um doing they gave the date on a phase
one date on a clinic on a ketogenic diet
for glioblastoma it was compelling
enough that they're doing a phase two
trial and my foundation is
um helping out with that trial so it'll
be a huge multi-centered the largest
study ever done on ketogenic diet
therapy for for brain cancer so it's
changing it is it is changing yes
you know if you do run into a clinician
that is up in the literature that
endorses these things but
you know not all of them will no what
i'm finding is that the functional
medicine community are very much up on
this and that but that general
practitioners generally right and
they're not necessarily your oncologist
and then you get um a you know a couple
of integrative oncologists who are
starting to bring this into play but
they usually have to step outside the
system in order to practice which means
that you have to pay privately for them
right because they are not allowed to
practice
with it and bring these things into
their practice like an oncologist can't
tell you about diet because they're not
a nutritionist they can't step outside
the standard of care uh because their
ass will be on the line basically and
people just need to understand i
understand the the that that they have
limitations and that they have rules and
stuff
but as the patient or as a loved one of
the patient you need to understand that
that is the the the situation and that's
how these different
rules at play so you can't just go in
and hand over all your power and expect
that you're going to get the best in the
world
information because you're not you're
going to get the information that that
person's been taught for a status you're
going to get the information that's
allowed by that institution
and you're going to have you know
hundreds of years of
medical system
inertia basically like you said so
beautifully uh and behind stopping you
getting it i mean i'm
dealing with a patient at the moment
who's mum
a client who's his mom has covered and
we're trying to get the doctors to
consider and she's in a rest um i've a
victim you know in this 64 trials that
are you know extremely good evidence and
she's 88 and has comorbidities and stuff
but they won't look at it it's not a
licensed medicine in new zealand well
that's wrong for starters because it is
but that's their that's the take of the
rest time and that's what they're
sticking to
and i mean i lost my my dad 18 months
ago um he developed sepsis after an
aortic aneurysm um blew out in his main
aorta and he had a massive operation
survived that
but i was uh aware of all the research
around intravenous vitamin c and sepsis
and dr marek's work and many of the
others very fowler and so on and and i
was
desperate to get him intravenous vitamin
c now they had run out of options he was
dying and they would not let me do it
and i fought for 15 days against the
ethics committee um against every i had
to get every staff member's approval in
the entire icu unit all the doctors all
the nurses have one
spoke against me i was out it took me 15
days to fight through all of this while
i'm trying to fight for my dad's life
right to be able to do something as
simple as giving them intravenous
vitamin c when they have no other
options
you know it was just
that's
tragic and you know that the end of the
life when it's
all of medicine is
a risk reward right and you can
understand a risky intervention on
somebody that's mildly ill but when
somebody's at death's door yeah and
you're talking about something like iv
vitamin c you know some of our states in
the us we have the right to try law
where doctors are absolved of liability
and and the patients are more or less
given the right to try
end of life
um you know interventions
that may or may not save them but it's
it's the right to try and i
wholeheartedly believe in that that
especially with something that
is benign as something like you know iv
vitamin c they should should have the
right to try and this was i like i came
with the clinical research they said
we're not interested in the clinical
research it's a legal issue
you know um and and i found a legal
loophole eventually and my um my gp who
dad had been under was allowed to come
into the hospital and administer it
under her license and come in and do it
and she would um but they only let me do
it once and then they stopped me doing
it at the second of course you need it
every six hours uh and and by then he
was at this doorstep and it did actually
turn around all the markers initially
but i couldn't get the second one and in
time they they stopped me and it took me
18 hours and i mean i thought with
everything everything i had um
and and and and i lost that battle and
so
vitamin c for me is a big part of what i
you know um and trying to get that
research out there and now
this cancer journey it's like keep
getting slapped around the face but um
you know i i'm slightly
i can't stand loss of control i have a
hard time flying and to be locked in the
medical system
that profound loss of control is is
absolutely horrific
and you know
what drove me crazy with kovid was
you had these monoclonal antibodies that
were extremely
worked well right and and very few side
effects
they would not prescribe them for they'd
only give them to people that were high
risk
now you have this you know this
phenomenon of long covet and people that
were marathon runners who got coveted
and are still suffering years later why
wouldn't they
change that indication to prevent it to
prevent long covet it was never an
option unless you had money
you notice that all the people that are
are connected or rich they got the
monoclonal antibodies instantaneously
whereas if any one of us would have
walked in well you're not high risk go
home
and that that drives me crazy that we
don't in canada i was in canada for um
a few weeks during covet and they were
doing that up there they were they're
starting to do the monoclonals for just
kind of anybody just to prevent lancovid
because they they understood the
implications but yeah we just never
just when you look at the system you you
it'll drive you crazy you don't the
logic is
just rarely operates logically
especially in this covert world it's
like even like all logic has gone out
the door
but i don't think we'll open up that
monster because it says huge but yeah
the monoclonal antibodies and
intravenous vitamin c for covalent and
hyperbaric and things like that are not
being explored to this extent that they
need to be explored and you know this is
just that's another tragedy that's
happening and people are dying they're
frightened seem to when we could have
saved them in early intervention early
intervention you know like just doing
something earlier instead of waiting
until their oxygen levels are so low and
they're already in dire straits
you know instead of just giving them a
panadol and telling them to you know sit
at home and wait and see whether they
start dying or not um right yeah it's
for me it's just
but let's get back to the the cancer
topic because i wanted to talk a little
bit like i i listened to your interview
with dr jason fong who's who i really
want to get on the podcast too if you
can
give me an intro uh incredible man he'd
written the cancer code um
in in
he you were talking in there about the
abscopal effect
um which i
when i was looking with mum and lymphoma
and we were looking at radiation we
didn't actually have to go down that
path yet to touch wood
um
and i was trying to explain the abscopal
effect and the the the
uh protocol that i was after
and i just like they just looked at me
as if i'd come off another planet they
didn't know what the ebscopal effect was
uh one of them did and said oh that's
rubbish
um
you know it's just like
ah
you know like why so the abscopal effect
just for people who are listening you
may have to you know go through
radiation or whatever for their cancers
what is that and how does that work
because that's really interesting
yeah it is interesting so you know
immunotherapy has got a long history and
it goes way back um
it goes it really it goes way back when
you look in the literature
there was all these document
documented cases of people before
sterile surgical technique
where they would get this horrible sort
of post-surgery infection and then their
cancer would go into remission
afterwards and they had no explanation
for that other
then the immune system was was highly
activated and it somehow
finally noticed the cancer and
attacked the cancer that was the most
logical explanation and so that sort of
they sort of you know kind of dismissed
that immunotherapies then went way by
the wayside
and now with this resurgence of of
checkpoint inhibitors and
immunotherapies the abscopal effect has
come back and what what the scopeal
effect is is occasionally
when you
when you target even a single tumor site
even if somebody has metastatic cancer
multiple tumors you can target a single
tumor site
and the immune system it roughs up the
cell and exposes antigens to where the
immune system can finally notice it and
lock on and then get activated and
attack the cancer and so there's these
you know documented things during scope
effects during radiation throughout
throughout the years but then when
immunotherapies came along
those number of those scopal effects
documented sort of skyrocketed
and there was there's a few clinical
trials have been done one is on breast
cancer where they give a much lower dose
of radiation while concurrently
somebody's on a checkpoint inhibitor
and they'll only target one tumor site
and they'll hit it with this low dose of
radiation while on the check the
immunotherapy and it'll activate the
immune system to attack the the cancer
systemically and they showed a much
longer much longer survival in early
stage breast cancer doing this in the
small small clinical trial
but you're right it's not one of these
things that
um i think there are some clinical
trials that are proposed to continue to
study this
but it's one of those things that's kind
of
you know there's very little risk and
why
why wouldn't you try that if it's
if you weren't getting full radiation
why wouldn't you just try the single
tumor site and this is sort of um aimed
at like so when the when the cell uh is
destroyed by the radiation for the want
of a bit of description uh it sort of
uncovers the cancer cell so that the
immune system then recognizes it and
goes oh i've seen that over there in the
liver oh we better go over there and
attack that as well because before they
didn't have an explanation as to why
this was happening but they were just
noticing that this was so that the
immune system was suddenly able to and
this is also why as we get older we get
more cancers because the immune system
is deteriorating and not doing its job
you know well and on that front i'd like
to ask your your opinion i put you on
the spot perhaps but
you might not know but peptide therapy
um what's your take on things like
thymus and alpha one um i gd 25 and
things like that for
especially thomson alpha one seems to be
very interesting to reboot our immune
system um i've got my mum on that and
that was a mission getting that into new
zealand i can tell you big fights with
me trying to get that in but what's your
take on that
you know i think lisa we're just at the
forefront of immunotherapy and and the
immune system is absolutely incredibly
complex
right and and the way siddharth mukherju
described it is
there's an ice ball you're climbing and
we just got the first pickaxe in and now
we can kind of pull up and look and see
how far we can go so so
it's incredibly exciting immunotherapies
it's
it's it's really difficult because
the immune system has got two jobs and
they're two extraordinarily difficult
jobs to survey for cancer
and try to to get rid of it early and
also it's can
designed to all these checkpoints to not
attack ourselves which if it does that
leads to autoimmunity so it's got this
incredible sort of engineering tension
between it where it doesn't want to
attack self and that's why cancer is so
good at evading
you know it's got this immuno evasion
quality because it is a self cell
and the immune system you know is
trained not to attack so so right that
essentially when you when you target
with radiation you could potentially
expose
some of the proteins that are not
look a little different than self and
that's why the immune system can finally
lock on
but peptides you know tweaking the
immune system turning the dials a little
this way and that
i think will only get better at it but
it's going to be a it's just going to be
a trial and error long long journey yeah
it is and it's exciting stuff that's
coming down the line i heard in that
interview with dr fung as well um
that you would he was talking about like
the early detection of of cancer and i
know that you're a part of a vert and
zero life sciences um which i want to
get into um
and he was talking about uh so we've got
metastasis is an early stage event
not a late stage event like we've sort
of pictured it as like you have a tumor
growing and then a piece of it will
break off and that will go around the
the system and it will lodge somebody
else and it will start growing
whereas uh dr dr fung was saying
actually
we're these pieces breaking off all the
time and it vary from a very early but
most of them get killed off in the
bloodstream because it's a very you know
foreign environment for that cell
um and it doesn't make it but when it
does go right around and comes back down
to the tumor where it started from it's
now had a selection pressure where it's
actually gotten stronger and so you've
made a stronger cancer cell and then and
this and how that sort of related then
to the the um
hetero
heterogeneity of tumors like that they
have different genetic mutations in
different parts of the tumor and it's
like how can that be if it's a somatic
mutation theory there should be three or
four genes we should be able to target
it and the whole tumor should disappear
right but actually different parts of
the tumor have different genetic
mutations and his explanation for that
was that it was coming around
and it was resettling back down on the
on the tumor and but but had different
selection pressures going on so it was
evolving over time and getting stronger
is that did i butcher that
not at all no that's that's correct and
you know the sort of the
the competing theories on that the
somatic mutation theory contends that
cancer
is caused by a series of sequential
mutations right that leads to the the
clonal cell theory where this one cell
gains its ability to be a cancer cell
and then you get subclonal populations
that could have additional mutations so
when you sample a tumor site you will
find
cells with different mutations and
presumably they all have that founding
set of one two or three driver mutations
that kick precipitated the disease and
you can sample metastatic sites and find
even different mutational profile
additional to uh mutations so it's the
heterogeneity is incredibly large much
more than people thought before the
cancer genome atlas project
and it's it creates this game of
whack-a-mole for this idea of targeted
therapy right you could target one
mutation but a cell's got a mutation in
that same system
pathway
somewhere further down the line that
would render that drug ineffectual and
that's the problem with that paradigm of
targeted mutations but
the other theory is that
these mutations are more of a side
effect from the prime cause of the
disease which is in my mind
would best be described as a metabolic
epigenetic disease
when you look at when you look at what a
cancer cell is
they
all types of cancer have the same
hallmark features they're all burning
sugar they do this metabolic shift
they're all immortal they don't die they
evade the immune system so there's all
these pre these very
defined definitions of what cancer is
doing how can that be from a series of
random mutations and we know these
mutations are random when you sample for
example 100 women with breast cancer
you know 10 of them will have this
mutation some of them will have one
mutation completely somewhere else so
it's there's very there's some
consistency but there's even cases of
cancer with no driving mutations but it
is a histologically identical
you know
definitely neoplastic cancer cell
so you know if a physi you told a
physicist that i think they just laugh
and they do laugh paul davies was
recruited into the cans in the cancer
program by um anna barker and he looked
at the somatic mutation theory and just
thought it was ridiculous
that the you know that it stuck around
this long was was crazy so so if we look
at cancer then as
the prime drivers being metabolic and
epigenetic
that means that
all of those things potentially could be
modifiable right we don't have to target
mutations we can
look for ways to change the way cells
are expressing genes and so forth and
metabolizing substrates and things like
that
um
and there's all kinds of ways to do that
like for example ketones are what's
called h stack inhibitors so they do
change genetic expression
um so that i think that is the future of
of cancer therapy and there's beginning
to be epigenetic targeted drugs now
but it's just getting started you know
and you we all know how long this takes
to get meaningful therapies through the
clinic yeah 30-50 years
[Laughter]
yeah and this is science you know we
tend to think we're in this modern era
but you know with regards to cancer we
are really we'll look back 200 years now
realize that we were just in the dark
ages yeah we're still using radiation
which was invented about 110 years ago
chemotherapy was invented around world
war ii
and that's still some you know the
mainstays of cancer treatment so
when you look at the other advances in
computers and technology it's just the
most slow-moving
it's just lagging so far behind yeah and
then you know even when the research is
done and there's compelling evidence it
still takes another 30 years to get into
the actual clinic on the ground and this
is this is where someone like in my
situation and many of the people that
i'm working with situation is that okay
we haven't got all the clinical studies
in
uh we're facing you know
um end-of-life situations we're going to
have to make calls ourselves
and and we have to do the best with what
we have and this is why gathering this
information and sharing this information
so that people can make
the very best decision that they can
make and it's not always going to be
right and i was talking to my mum about
this yesterday and how much it you know
weighs on me um being responsible for
the decisions that i make for her health
and in my case i i the way i looked at
it was i went and got like uh 14 of the
world's best doctors on this and you
know i sold a house
spent a lot of that money on having
these doctors opinions and protocols and
things developed for her
and then i act like the ceo and i make
the decisions what we actually put in
the mix you know
not everybody has that uh ability to to
do that
um
you know financially you know it's been
very draining on our entire family
but whatever like for me it's like
whatever i'll i don't care if i lose
everything in in the pursuit of saving a
loved one is for me a good exchange of
you know if that's what it takes but
also
um
having the the mental ability to
research and to do all of this and you
know people who are actually sick how
the hell are they going to do that you
know and if they haven't got a driving
person behind them who's who's able to
do that they're sort of left you know
struggling you know to find this
information and it still weighs on me
heavily because if i make the wrong
decision
you know
she will pay the price
and you you shouldn't put the tremendous
amount of pressure on yourself because
medicine is practiced under a cloud of
uncertain uncertainty every day
and you can go from one example to the
next for that say you come in someone
comes in with with primary
diagnosis of primary prostate cancer
there's five treatment options there's
surgery there's watch and weight do
nothing and then there's three different
forms of radiation
those five treatment modalities
have never been compared head to head we
do not know which one's better than the
other
so watch and wait may be the best option
which is doing nothing but that's
terribly you know when you say the word
cancer that's that's terrifying
and and then the you know the proton
beam the most advanced most expensive
sort of therapy in that five
is what's getting prescribed the most
but nobody knows if that's the best
still
so
every day doctors are you know and when
you do those head-to-head clinical
trials you find out that decades of of
what was thought was the best treatment
paradigm is not
you know if you look at the for example
the radical mastectomy that went on for
80 years before they finally did the
trial saying a simple luck is just as
good so women were disfigured literally
for for 80 years
so
it's uncertain all we can know is what
data we have and then you measure that
through a risk reward lens so for
example fasting before chemo
that's very safe we know that it's free
so some something like that with low
risk but could have a potential reward
that's to me you know seems like an easy
decision some repurposed drugs that show
very good
improved survival outcomes when people
are on them
that are low risk we know the side
effect profile and it's very mild that
seems like an easy decision
so
you know you you just all we have is the
data we have and then you you look at
the risk reward and and make those
decisions but i think yeah i you know i
bravo for what you're doing it's it's
it's the right way to approach it i wish
you know the whole medical system would
approach it that way
well this is the thing you have to do it
because you you don't have
uh
you you can't rely and this is the thing
you know this is not against the
individual doctors or anything like that
but the system is broken
and they're really good doctors and
they're really overwhelmed doctors who
are trying to i mean if you've got 500
patients and you've got two minutes
basically 15 minutes with each one how
the hell are you going to get to
anywhere you know right
and i make the point all the time it's
not
this is not against the doctors this is
just a system right this is a systemic
problem yeah yeah and we got it we and
this is why we're doing what we're doing
um i wanted to to just um
go into the soil analysis um can you
talk a bit about that one because that
was good and i don't want to butcher it
so
we're looking at a uh basically an
analogy of an a of a plant being in the
right uh soil can you share that story
with us
yeah you know what i'm saying a lot of
that's i think jason fung kind of that's
his yeah
yeah soil hypothesis is where that's the
one the way cancer develops is um
the soil right the systemic sort of
micro environment around our cells is
just as important as
whatever molecular events precipitate
cancer and that that micro environment
is
could be causing those molecular events
so that's kind of the seed soil
hypothesis and what it takes
what we know when you look at the
evidence is it takes sort of a
subchronic a subclinical
chronic irritant over time
to where a cancer cell or a cell starts
to
take on this phenotype of a cancer cell
it happens over you know over decades
and so you know a virus can do that a
sort of subclinical infection that
lingers um
damage obviously from smoking you know
that that's a physical and chemical
damage it just happens daily so you get
this
this this changes the entire sort of
micro environment around cells to where
it's
highly inflammatory
and that begins to change the way the
genes that are being expressed in the
cell and it begins to revert back
to the genes the very early genes
that we express during embryology and
this goes back to you know this
evolutionary idea of what cancer is and
when you think about
our tenure on the planet life began
about three billion years ago and it
began as single cellular organisms and
their biological imperative is just to
divide divide divide
replicative immortality right
and then somewhere along the line
these cells started living together in a
group and that's when mitochondria
mitochondria allowed for that and then
multicellular life took off
and that was a very special event we
don't know how the probability of that
ever happening again we know it happened
once on planet earth so
it's pretty special that we're even here
but when cells begin to live together
they have to sign a contract with each
other not to stop dividing and behave
for the benefit of the collective
so what happens the cancer cell will
start to re-express these very very
early genes our earliest genes in our
dna that go back to this time of
unicellularity and so they again they
adopt this biological imperative of
replicative immortality
and it's it's funny the way life builds
on itself we don't ever reinvent things
we always build off what evolution gave
us before and so those are the genes
that are expressed early on in
embryogenesis
when an egg is fertilized there's you
know begins to build an organism and
then once that organism is built then
those cells just play a specific role to
do their job within their organ
but but cancer cells begin to go back
and re-express those embryonic
genes and when you look at an early
embryo the cells look like cancer cells
they're extraordinarily glycolytic
they're evading the immune system
they're dividing like crazy
so it's a really a recapitulation of
biological programs that we already have
within us and how do you tell genes to
behave you know
within the collective
one of the things is oxygen that's an
extraordinarily powerful signal of cells
to be
in the collective the other is avoid um
any sort of chronic irritants over time
you know
don't smoke and things like that
and then and then just mine the micro
environment of your body which is giving
it the right food exercising it's
designed to do that every time you do
that it brings down those inflammatory
processes and so forth so the soil
in his model is just as important as you
know the seed of cancer whereas before
we always focus on the seed what what is
going wrong in that one cell to cause it
to turn into cancer
and and we didn't really focus on on the
soil that is just such a beautiful
analogy and it sums up basically
the approach you know so nicely
and that's why i'd love to get dr jason
on too because i think
yeah there's these sorts of insights and
he's a nephrologist for those who don't
know who we're talking about and he's
the author of the cancer code um another
fantastic book um
travis you've been absolutely amazing
today i can honestly talk to you for
hours and i'd love to go into the
nitty-gritties of uh stuff that that um
you know
are all around the ketones and and all
of that sort of thing but is there
anything that you think we haven't
covered off in this conversation that
would be really beneficial or anything
that you're writing or studying about at
the moment that you want to get across
that we haven't sort of talked about yet
i think we covered a lot you know i i
like i said i i i'm just
i've always been extremely fascinated
about that this hybrid metabolism this
idea of ketones and what they do and the
overarching question to me is
what is the natural state of mankind
right because like we said most people
will probably never enter ketosis in
their lifetime
and and what is the natural state of
mankind how are we what is our
metabolism supposed to look like and
you know when we talk about everything
from depression to
just people feeling good how are we
supposed to feel you know what how good
are we supposed to feel and one of the
things you notice with people when they
do
you don't even have to go on a full
ketogenic diet but when you when you
reduce carbohydrates or do eating
windows you know don't eat for 16 18
hours all the time or a few days a week
they notice a clarity they notice things
lifting in their mind right
and so yeah that to me is fascinating is
what what is our optimal state of being
and how are you know how are we supposed
to live so that's still a question that
that i think
you know we don't have the perfect
answer to but we certainly know that the
therapeutic potential of these things
we're talking about ketosis and fasting
is is profound yeah in autophagy and
getting rid of senescent cells and uh
you know all of that yeah stuff and
there was a senescence cell the
senescent cell thing is is another thing
that is absolutely astonishing that the
data coming out of mayo clinic
right right
and people what happens is is as we age
some of our cells sort of just stop
metabolizing and idle in this
pro-inflammatory state and they don't
die and they cause inflammation
and so um they gave they did an
artificial
intelligence simulation of molecules
that would bind to this apoptotic
pathway that would kill senescent cells
and they found one the optimal one was
something called physotin which is in
strawberries you can buy it as a
supplement and they gave it to these
mice and then autopsied them and
senescent cells in every tissue were
dramatically reduced
their lifespans were prolonged and to me
that's the biggest arbitrary you know
that
that is it's hard to extend lifespan in
mice
um and we you know we don't know about
humans it's probably harder but you can
extend lifespan by giving you the spices
and every marker of health went up and
it was a quick what they call a
hit-and-run though so they just give a
big dose for a couple days and that's it
wow so to me that that's got incredible
if you could give somebody an extract
from strawberries and pop these little
senescent cells
yep i mean we were on quite a lot
and inquisition is another one of those
interesting things and there's other
lots of other analytics that are showing
promise and things like rapamycin as
well
um that are showing promise and uh i
mean quercetin is definitely part of
you know my protocol
daily and mums protocol uh i just did a
podcast on quercetin actually yesterday
so
and physician is also and it's just a
few atoms different from physician
they're they're very they're the same
sort of polyphenol um very close to each
other yeah yeah and then there's
interesting stuff around resveratrol and
of course nicotinamide mononucleotide
enemy
um that dr david sinclair talks about uh
spermathine is another one that i'm
fascinated by and its ability to
upregulate autophagy uh as well i don't
know if you've looked into spermadine
but that's another really fascinating
terrible name not good for marketing but
um fantastic molecule
uh resveratrol is also an interesting
one this is all of these amazing
compounds egcg you know lots and lots
that we could go in and but there's a
lot of they're a group that are
synalytics that can help you get rid of
these senescent cells and these
senescent cells are just absolutely
crucial these are like zombie cells that
go around in your body weigh them down
and cause all this inflammation so
getting rid of that again fasting is
is another way to do it um but adding in
these analytics can help as well um just
before we wind up i did want to go to
our vert sciences uh to your avert
because you're a part of that company
aren't you avert zero yeah yeah so uh
stage zero life sciences week one really
got a program called a fert which is
everything we're talking about it's it's
preventative health care that we
we think it should be done and you know
what we think the science says it should
be done so we do a very extensive panel
of laboratory work that gps normally
don't go so deep so we look at markers
of inflammation markers of insulin
resistance
and then the doctor meets with the
patient on a telehealth consult so it's
very easy
goes through the lab work what it means
and then potential lifestyle
interventions that will change those
markers and then we test
you know typically every quarter to see
if the trend is moving in the right
direction from these lifestyle
interventions from everything to sleep
to stress to exercise and obviously diet
and then if if they're too high you know
these are licensed physicians we have
options of
very
very low risk drugs like metformin if
insulin resistance is high
so i think it's just a fantastic
preventative medicine program the way
that it should be done
and it's looking at look um sort of
early stage detection of cancer as well
too isn't it or the
biopsy right we have a we have a blood
biopsy that we're one of the companies
that's developing blood biopsies like
alumina they have grail there's quite a
few companies and we're in that space
looking it's a simple blood draw and we
try to the goal is to detect cancer as
early as possible when it's the most
curable when hopefully it's it's just
simple surgery can be curative
wow
is this available internationally or at
the moment is it only available in the
states because a lot of my lessons this
is available we have we have two
places where it's available right now
richmond virginia and um toronto canada
but we're working on getting labs set up
so it'll be you know hopefully available
everywhere so we'll be able to have room
for the next year or two yeah the avert
program is available um in all 50 states
anybody can sign up for that okay okay
now this is this is just this is where
it's at you know so let me know when you
get international with all of that
because um you know i want to do it you
know i want to go and get my blood
tested and just see exactly where where
i'm at and having the access to that
sort of information is for me just
absolutely gold for people they're
wanting to you know live to 150 and
beyond and i don't think that's
ridiculous anymore
um yeah that's our goal travis
christopherson you've been absolutely uh
amazing today i'm so grateful for your
research um the passion that you bring
to the whole space and and the work that
you're doing uh it is saving lives so
please don't stop
yeah and thank you for you're doing your
part spreading the information out
that's wonderful
is it where can people find you actually
travis if they want to reach out to you
or to anyone of your um your foundation
your your projects that you're doing
sciences we give us some urls and stuff
yeah the the um stage zero life sciences
we have a the websites of vert now
um and for me my my foundation is the
foundation for metabolic cancer
therapies you can go on the website and
see our projects and you can donate on
there and uh you know the goal of that
is to
to fund these sort of like we talked
about these therapies that are in
financial purgatory that there's they're
off patent and there's no way there's no
final financial incentive to study them
like ketogenic diets and cancer and
things like that
and we've had you know i had modest
expectations but we've had incredibly
generous donors and we've been able to
fund a lot of important studies
absolutely amazing that is really really
exciting because we need someone to take
these
drugs and molecules and things further
and test
and get it out there travis thanks for
your time today
yeah thank you lisa take care great
talking to you